IRCD-specific notes
-------------------

asuka
-----

You need U:lines for services on all servers on the network.

bahamut
-------

You need U:lines for services on all servers on the network.

bircd
-----

You need U:lines for services on all servers on the network.

dreamforge
----------

hyperion
--------

The channel modes +dDfJjLPQ are not supported and will be ignored. Bans with
forward channels will also not be recognized properly. This may lead to
problems like users still being banned after a chanserv unban command.

Atheme gives privilege to opers by virtue of their umode +o, which is not
consistent with hyperion's tendency to remove as much privilege as possible
from umode +o.

There are two methods to allow services to remember users after a netsplit or
restart and to enable things like channels only accessible for registered
users. The traditional dancer method is umode +e; it only works if the user is
logged in to the nick they are currently using. The new hyperion method using
SVSLOGIN and SIGNON does not have this restriction. It also allows changing
nick/ident/host at the same time, but Atheme does not use that yet.
Consequently, NOIDPREFIX is not supported in a useful way. In either case the
recognition is based on the login name only, so beware of dropping and
recreating accounts during netsplits.

Atheme will always set +e appropriately; if SVSLOGIN support is available, it
will be used (this assumes the whole network has it). SVSLOGIN support can
also be disabled with a simple source file change.

The wallops option will report via +s server notices.

inspircd
--------

At present, this module supports the meshing protocol support only. We are
aware that the InspIRCd team is in progress of implementing acyclic
(tree-based) linking, and when that is completed, we will add support for
that protocol format.

ircnet
------

Atheme links as a server (C:, N:, H: lines), not as a service. IRCnet-style
services cannot do enough (like manipulating channel modes).

Nick delay will lock any nicks killed, so /ns ghost is worthless; it is
probably best to use userserv instead of nickserv.

Only # channels are supported.

Tklines are used for /os akill but this only works on the server
Atheme is directly linked to.

Jupes will use SIDs numerically following services's SID, make sure to
leave plenty of space.

monkey
------

plexus
------

ptlink
------

ratbox
------

If you want to use operserv kline, you need shared{} blocks or U:lines
for services on all servers on the network. Note that only hybrid 7.1
and ratbox support remote unkline, although it may appear to sort of
work in hybrid 7.0.

If you use ratbox 2.1.x or newer, it is recommended to compile with
ratbox-services support as this will allow remembering logged-in state
across netsplits and services restarts, prevent deopping/kicking chanserv,
etc. You will need a service{} block on all servers. Logged-in state is
based on name only, so beware of dropping and recreating accounts during
netsplits.

Hybrid 6.x or csircd should also work but they are not recommended; you
must leave join_chans enabled for full functionality.

scylla
------

shadowircd
----------

sorcery
-------

undernet
--------

You need U:lines for services on all servers on the network.

unreal
------

You need ulines{} for services on all servers on the network.
