Atheme IRC Services version 7.3 and above supports SASL SCRAM logins.

It is not recommended to deploy this feature unless you are running an
IRCv3.2 network. The main reason for this is that SCRAM digest algorithm
negotiation happens out-of-band; the server does not tell the client which
digest algorithm was used to calculate its database credentials, so the
client has to try each mechanism in turn until one of them succeeds. It
can only do this if it knows which mechanisms are available, which it can
only know based on the value of the 'sasl' capability during capability
negotiation, and capabilities only have values in IRCv3.2 servers. This
software does tell the client which SCRAM mechanism to use after its
chosen mechanism fails due to a digest algorithm mismatch, but that is
somewhat sub-optimal. Likewise, a client may not even attempt a SCRAM
login in the first place if it does not know in advance that there are
SCRAM mechanisms available. Please consider this.

Some work needs to be performed by the prospective IRC network administrator
to enable this. The 5 main steps to perform are:


1) Build Atheme with GNU libidn support. This is detected automatically at
   configure-time, but you can force it (die on error) with the ./configure
   argument '--with-idn'.

   It should say "GNU libidn support ....: Yes" at the bottom of ./configure.


2) Decide which SCRAM mechanism you want to use:

   - SCRAM-SHA-1 is provided exclusively for standard compliance.
     You almost certainly don't want to use this mechanism!

   - SCRAM-SHA-256 is suitable for most cases. This is what you should use
     unless you have a good reason to pick another mechanism. (*)

   - SCRAM-SHA-512 is not supported by most clients, but may be suitable
     for certain use cases. (*)


3) Configure pbkdf2v2 to generate SCRAM-style password hashes (atheme.conf):

   crypto {
       pbkdf2v2_digest = "SCRAM-SHA-256";
       /* or "SCRAM-SHA-512" or "SCRAM-SHA-1" */

       #pbkdf2v2_rounds = ...;          /* between 10000 and 65536 (**) */
   }

   This is important. The SASL SCRAM module will not register any mechanisms
   until you do, because when you are storing regular PBKDF2 digests, a
   compromise of the services database allows the attacker to log in as any
   account whose password was hashed in this manner, without knowing the
   account's passwords or having to brute-force them. In other words, it
   allows the attacker to impersonate anyone they can get PBKDF2 digests for.


4) Load modules/crypto/pbkdf2v2 *before* any other crypto module

   This ensures that it will become the primary crypto provider


5) Load modules/saslserv/scram



 * It is highly recommended that you choose SCRAM-SHA-256. You cannot enable
   more than one.

   SCRAM-SHA-1 is only supported to comply with RFC 5802, which states that
   supporting SHA-1 is required. However, all modern client SASL libraries
   that support SCRAM, support SCRAM-SHA-256 (RFC 7677), and any new client
   implementations are expected to as well. You should only choose SCRAM-SHA-1
   if you have a large user base that wants to use SCRAM, but who cannot use
   SCRAM-SHA-256 or SCRAM-SHA-512.

   SCRAM-SHA-512 is not officially specified, and so it is not widely-
   implemented, but RFC 5802 Section 4 indirectly allows it, and the default
   PBKDF2v2 digest was (and remains) SHA2-512, which will allow SCRAM-SHA-512
   logins without services having to recompute any PBKDF2 digests for users
   who reidentify (by plain text password) or change their password. This
   enables a seamless transition to SCRAM logins if you are still using the
   default algorithm. If you were using the pbkdf2v2 module previously with
   SHA2-512 digests, this might outweigh the compatibility issues for you,
   especially if you can reasonably expect your clients to support this
   mechanism as well (e.g. if you are also providing the client software).



** Inclusive. The popular Cyrus SASL client library will refuse to perform a
   PBKDF2 calculation with an iteration count greater than 65536, and the
   pbkdf2v2 crypto module will refuse an iteration count lower than 10000.
   The default is 64000, so you can continue to omit this parameter from your
   configuration file if you are doing so already.

   If you are uncertain on the number of rounds to use, please use the
   included cryptographic benchmarking utility, and pass it the '-o' & '-i'
   command-line arguments to perform an optimal PBKDF2 parameter discovery
   benchmark with SASL SCRAM support.
